Official UV-K5 downloads page: [Chinese](http://qsfj.com/support/downloads/3002) | [English](http://en.qsfj.com/products/3002)

Official UV-K5 product page: [Chinese](http://qsfj.com/products/3002) | [English](http://en.qsfj.com/products/3002)

Official UV-K5(8) aka UV-K6 downloads page: [Chinese](http://qsfj.com/support/downloads/3268) | [English](http://en.qsfj.com/products/3268)

Official UV-K5(8) aka UV-K6 product page: [Chinese](http://qsfj.com/products/3268) | [English](http://en.qsfj.com/products/3268)

# Menu Explanations
The radio includes a menu system that uses a short term to describe a function that can be somewhat unclear to users, especially users for whom this is their first radio. This explanation of the menu items should help all users understand each menu item.
* **SQL** – Squelch Level – 0-9 – Squelch is a feature of a radio that cuts the speaker when there is no transmission. It usually uses the presence of a carrier signal to detect a transmission and turn the speaker back on. In some cases, it can use an audio frequency as well. The squelch level determines how strong the detected carrier signal has to be before turning the speaker back on and ranges from 0 (off) to 9 (very strong) with the default being 4.
* **STEP** – Step Frequency – 2.5K/5K/6.25K/10K/12.5K/25K – Step frequency is the step from one frequency to the next when the up or down key is pressed in frequency mode. If you are at 300MHz and the step is 25K (Khz), then pressing the UP key once will give you a frequency of 300.025MHz. Smaller STEP sizes allow for finer control but require more key presses to make large changes in frequency. The default is 12.5Khz.
* **TXP** – Output Power – LOW/MID/HIGH – This is the Transmit Power of the radio. While the actual values vary depending on the frequency, the basic values are Low - , Medium - , High – 5W.
* **R_DCS** – Receive DCS – (OFF,1-104:DCS, 105-208: reverse DCS). – Short Press F+* to trigger DCS to scanning. – DCS is Digital Code Squelch. It is a 3 digit binary code that is encoded in the audio transmission below at a low frequency and should be filtered out by the HT so it isn’t heard. It is used to control access to repeaters and other radios which won’t accept transmissions from radios not including the correct DCS code. While the option says it ranges from 1-208, the actual DCS codes are also shown on the menu for selecting. Pressing the F button and then the * button will start the radio scanning on the current frequency for DCS tones. When a tone is detected it is displayed on the screen and you have the option to save it. See [Table 1](https://github.com/ludwich66/Quansheng_UV-K5_Wiki/wiki/Manual_Appendix_CTCSS-Frequencies) for a list of the codes for this radio.
* **R_CTCS** – Receive CTCSS – (OFF, 1-50:CTCSS) – Short Press F+* to trigger CTCSS scanning. - CTCSS is Continuous Tone Coded Squelch System. This system is older than DCS and uses a sub-audible tone added to the audio transmission to deactivate the squelch. Pressing the F button and then the * button will start the radio scanning on the current frequency for CTCSS tones. When a tone is detected, it is displayed on the screen and you have the option to save it. See Table 2 for a list of the codes for this radio.
* **T_DCS** – Transmit DCS – (OFF, 1-104: DCS, 105-208:reverse DCS) – DCS is Digital Code Squelch. It is a 3 digit binary code that is encoded in the audio transmission at a low frequency and should be filtered out by the HT so it isn’t heard. It is used to control access to repeaters and other radios which won’t accept transmissions from radios not including the correct DCS code. The selection ranges from OFF to 208 and displays the actual DCS code on the screen. See Table 1 for a list of the codes for this radio.
* **T_CTCS** – Transmit CTCSS – (OFF, 1-50:CTCSS) – CTCSS is Continuous Tone Coded Squelch System. This system is older than DCS and uses a sub-audible tone added to the audio transmission to deactivate the squelch. Pressing the F button and then the * button will start the radio scanning on the current frequency for CTCSS tones. When a tone is detected, it is displayed on the screen and you have the option to save it. See Table 2 for a list of the codes for this radio.
* **SFT-D** – Frequency Deviation Setting – (OFF: TX frequency=RX frequency; ADD: TX frequency=RX frequency + frequency deviation; SUB: TX frequency=RX frequency-frequency deviation) – This setting allows the transmit (TX) frequency to be offset from the receive (RX) frequency. It uses the TX frequency as the starting point and then changes the RX frequency according to this setting and the OFFSET setting. The three options are OFF, ADD and SUB. OFF means that the RX frequency is the same as the TX setting. This is the default. ADD means that the RX frequency will be HIGHER than the TX frequency by the OFFSET. SUB means that the RX frequency will be LOWER than the TX frequency by the OFFSET.
* **OFFSET** – Frequency of Frequency Deviation – (0-999.9999M) – This is the offset amount for the difference between the Transmit (TX) and Receive (RX) frequencies. It can be changed by the STEP frequency to any value that the radio can cover.
W/N – Channel Bandwidth – (0:WIDE; 1:NARROW) – This sets the bandwidth of the FM modulation. Since the signal is encoded by modulating the frequency of the carrier (main) frequency, the bandwidth defines how much the frequency can vary from the main frequency. Narrow band can vary a maximum of 12.5KHz. Wide band can vary a maximum of 25KHz.
* **SCR** – Encrypted Communication – (OFF, 1-10: 1 to 10 types of scrambling frequency.) - This radio has the ability to use a simple form of audio encryption called voice inversion. This is done by amplitude modulating the audio with a carrier frequency and then using a low-pass filter to select the lower side-band. This basically flips the tones in the voice but it does not change the cadence of the words. Voice Inversion is easily decrypted with basic equipment. The inversion frequencies can be found in Table 3.
* **BCL** – Busy Channel Lock – (OFF/ON) – When enabled, this feature will disable the ability to transmit (TX) when the radio detects a transmission already on the channel. It is possible you will not hear the transmission if you are using DCS or CSTSS squelch codes but the radio will also detect the transmission and prevent you from transmitting.
* **MEM-CH** – Channel Save – (Choose the channel by Up/Down Key and Number Key, press MENU key to Save the channel.) - This will save the current frequency, mode, power level and DCS/CTCSS setting into the chosen channel. This will allow you to program in the different channels you wish to save, without using a separate computer.
* **SAVE** – Battery Save – (OFF/1:1/1:2/1:3/1:4) The rate between active time and sleep time. - This setting will add a period of time where the radio does not scan the frequencies it is monitoring for activity. This will extend battery life. This includes not only the two dual-watch (DW) frequencies but also the NOAA weather warnings. 
* **VOX** – VOX Setting – (OFF: turn off VOX, 1-10: 1 to 10 grade.) VOX is the latin word for voice. This setting uses the beginning of speech, your voice, to start transmitting. This means that you do not have to press the transmit button (PTT) in order to begin a transmission. This is most useful when using a hands-free headset. The VOX number defines how sensitive the VOX circuitry is with 1 being very sensitive, starting a transmission with low talk and 10 being very insensitive, starting a transmission with a shout only.
* **ABR** – Auto Backlight – (OFF: turn off Backlight; 1-5: turn off Backlight in 1-5 seconds) – The screen has a backlight which allows for the screen to be seen in low-light environments. However, the backlight also uses power. The firmware is designed to always turn the backlight off after a certain amount of time, or just leave the backlight off. This setting will allow you to set the backlight timeout time in seconds.